# Analysis_of_the_Chemical_Engineering_Job_Market-

Introduction

For the vast majority of fresh graduates, finding the first professional job can be an incredibly stressful process. The alarming growth of unemployment rates, recent pandemic and lack of experience are one of many factors that reduce the chance of acquiring a job. In an increasingly active and connected world economy, new jobs are always being made and existing jobs are re-inventing themselves. As a result, businesses and work roles have been changing at a frenetic rate. For an ever-growing digital world, being able to effectively use information and technology is paramount and one of the most important and useful abilities. The multiple job-search platforms provide vast amount of information, which could be both useful and overwhelming. With the intention of applying for a new position, the study of the particular nature and demands of the job as well as the sector in which it is located is indispensable. Obtaining a job requires more than just theoretical, practical, creative and social abilities, it’s also necessary to know how and where to find the most relevant information. 
The ideal set of data will provide a personalized unique filtered list of job openings posted from different platforms which will provide direct links to the company, city where the job is being offered, posted date, requirements and summary of the job opening. The set of information will not only facilitate the search but also generate a data base for the opening along with an analysis of the job market and tracking of the application process. Therefore, this project aims to use data science to optimize the job search process, providing the user with relevant information that will allow to develop strategies for carrying out the search. 
The project itself is flexible to the point that not only will it provide the methodology for job seekers to obtain current information from job-search platforms such as Indeed, but it will also display overall information about the geographical distribution of the companies and the job openings, providing the data to allow the user to perform further analysis. The program will combine different technologies such as Web Scraping, K-mean clustering, API Requests and Text mining in the form of WordCloud and string extraction. This project will focus on the chemical industry in Germany, but as it was mentioned before the implemented codes and methodologies are flexible enough to be adapted to other markets. Hence, anyone with the desire to explore the job market and the multiple companies can potentially benefit from the outcome of this project. 

Data

The necessary information needed for this project will be derived from two different main sources: Companylist.org and Indeed.com. The use of python library BeautifulSoup allowed the scraping of both websites. Companylist.org provides the names and addresses of the Chemical companies in Germany. While indeed will provide the job listing information of the opening position such as the name of company offering the job, the direct links to the company’s website, city where the job is being offered, posted date, requirement and summary of the job opening. To obtain the location-enabled Geospatial information, Mapquest developer platform was used. This allows to obtain the latitude and longitude of each of the companies and job opening scraped by the different websites. The Geospatial data was then visualized using the Folium package, which is a python library that can create interactive leaflet maps using coordinate data.

Methodology

As a data science project, the implemented methodology follows the data science life cycle process, which requires to capture, prepare, preprocess, process, analyze and communicate the data science process’ results. After defining the problem, the process continued by searching and validating the best set of information to collect the raw unstructured data from all relevant channels. During this step of the methodology, web scrapping technique was used to obtain real-time data captured from the web. Following the data collection, it is necessary to understand and prepare the data in order to be able to further analyze it and most importantly, to be able to solve the problem. Methods such as ETL (extract, convert, load), Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and data visualization were used to get familiarized with the process. During the analysis step and after uniting the data, K-mean clustering model was used to classify the geospatial data obtained from the API Requests. The implementation of the Elbow method generates an optimal number of clusters needed, taking into account the geographical location. The main finding of the project was delivered by maps and other data visualizations to help decision-makers understand the observations, while ultimately solving the main question, i.e., what is the best strategy to follow when trying to find a job in the chemical industry in Germany? 

Results 

According to Companylist.org, there exist 4.029 registered chemical engineer headquarters across Germany, from which the majority are located in Köln, Hamburg, Frankfurt, Essen and Stuttgart in descending order. The K-mean cluster determined five different clusters, being the ones located in the south-east, center and west areas the ones with the highest number of headquarters. When it comes to the cities that offer the highest number of jobs, Berlin, Hamburg, Düsseldorf, Stuttgart and Darmstadt are the top five. Overall, there are 819 job offers for the chemical and process field. Companies such as Bayer, Tesla, Merck, Helm, Henkel, BASF and Covestro are the ones that lead the job opening market. After Berlin, NRW, Baden-Württemberg, Hamburg, Hesse and Bavaria are the regions that offer the most jobs. The distribution of the posted jobs exerts a high fluctuation. 
The text mining analysis from the job description show that experience, work, support, project, knowledge, development and management are the most frequently used words in the job description. It also showed that out of the total 819 analyzed jobs, 452 required German knowledge.

Discussions

The distribution of the geographical location of chemical engineering headquarters and job offers are clearly tight to the main cities within German’s regions. However, it’s also safe to assume that most of the companies have multiple locations around Germany. Also, the offers themselves are subject to flexible relocation despite the location of the job offer according to the subclassification and specialization within jobs such as the location of the production, offices and suppliers. As it’s the case of Berlin and Hamburg regions, the vast majority of job are concentrated in cities such as Berlin and Hamburg respectably. NRW, Baden-Württemberg, Hesse and Bavaria’s job offer are more geographically distributed along their territories. The great fluctuation of the job posting remains unclear, but in order to address this matter of potential seasonality, a set of data bigger than 30 days is required. 
Some of the most well recognized companies are the ones that offer the most amount of job. However, these opportunities are tied to the economic situation of the companies and vacancies that they have. Therefore, the result of this project is subject to the information, i.e., to where and when the data was extracted. Moreover, it is recommended for the future to diversify the data extraction from other multiple platforms, as the job offer posting is not centralized and it depends on the company. 

Conclusion

This project with the implemented methodology lays the foundation for a potential use of the program which will help to filter, extract and organize information by personal specifications from the multiple exiting platforms with the aim to optimize the job search process. The study revealed the most recent sector which offer jobs in the Chemical Engineer industry according to location, companies and language requirements.
 
References
Chemical companies in Germany. (2021). Chemical Companies in Germany. https://companylist.org/Germany/Keywords/Chemical/?sort=n
Chemical industry. (2019, March 13). GERMANY WORKS. https://germanyworks.com/branch/chemical-industry/#rd
Chemical Jobs in Deutschland - April 2021 | Stellenangebote auf Indeed.com. (2021). Indeed.com. https://de.indeed.com/Jobs?q=chemical&l=Deutschland&lang=en

